bonus yen so buying meat from a grocery
from a grocery store obviously supports
animal cruelty but eating someone's like
chicken tenders that they were gonna
throw away what how is that a problem so
then she gets into the the non vegan
things that she still consumes she still
uses so she talks about movie theater
popcorn and candy bar like very
occasionally she says I think in the
comments she says like four times a year
or something like that I think it's a
shame that someone who eats a vegan diet
avoids palm oil but let's say they buy
like I don't know Maybelline foundation
or something every few months or they
buy a pair of leather shoes every few
years they can't call themselves vegan
but the thing that I I really like is
the thing that she says after she lists
those sometimes I just feel so sick of
caring about every tiny thing I do and
so I feel like I'm holding onto these
like few things that I just don't really
care about because I'm just so sick of
structuring my entire life checking
every label googling every uncertainty
asking the server to go in the back and
pull out this big binder that has every
single ingredient of everything you know
it just after a certain point it just
becomes exhausting this really relates
to the ethic behind veganism and even
the ethic behind what I'm doing here in
the digital vegan demi-monde when I was
walking on the street the other day
things like this have happened too many
times in China there was yet another car
barging its way through a bunch of
pedestrians right so this is like the
car is basically crashing into people at
low speed to break the rules and get
through the intersection thirty seconds
faster right not that interesting a
story all kinds of people on this block
on this at this intersection all kinds
of people there who can't stand up for
themselves
there are women holding babies there are
elderly people there are people from
different ages and stages of life there
are people there who either can't stand
up for themselves or who feel that they
can't stand up themselves and when a car
like this basically threatens to run
them over to barge its way through the
pedestrians were crossing the street a
lot of them just
slink out of the way and I don't this
particular case the other day I slammed
my fist down on the hood of the car that
was dead center the car was running into
me just running into me at slow speed
and I didn't do that to damage the car
but I put my fist down on the car to
make that noise because you know it's
hollow gives a bigger against the
drivers attention and driver was doing
that thing a lot of drivers when they're
doing something wrong they kind of don't
want to look at you they want to pretend
like they don't see you dude I'm huge
I'm 6 foot 3 I'm over 200 pounds and I'm
standing dead center in front of your
car you're gonna pretend you don't see
me and you know I made this noise but
put my fist down on his car and I looked
him straight in the eye the driver not
gonna say he can't run me over he can
but I'm not gonna make it easy for him
I'm not gonna lie down and die and I'm
not gonna slink out of the way I'm not
gonna jump out of his way if he wants to
kill me okay but I'm not going down
without a fight and I know there are all
kinds of people right there on that
street where then who can't do that
because they're carrying their baby or
they're too old they're too weak or they
don't have the confidence in terms of
maybe maybe dealing with the cops if it
happens afterwards I mean if if if that
did come to a fight which I knew it
wouldn't I'm gonna see I could see
through the windshield this guy wasn't
gonna stand up to me but if it came to a
fight guess what I tell the cops yeah I
crashed into me he intentionally hit me
with his car what do you expect gonna
happen
I don't mine what I don't [ __ ] spending
a few weeks in a Chinese prison either
do me a world of good language immersion
you know fine I'm not actually doing
that out of anger I'm not doing that out
of a sense of revenge I'm not doing it
even under the sense of my own dignity
like this driver you have to respect me
I'm actually doing it because I want
this driver to respect everyone I don't
just want him to not run over me I don't
just want him to not run over the guy
who's big enough and tough and
to threaten to kick his ass if he
doesn't [ __ ] put on the brakes when
he knows he's wrong and he knows he
should just wait for the light to change
I want him to respect everyone including
or especially the people who can't stand
up for themselves and on a really deep
level I do think that's behind veganism
veganism as opposed to reduce at
arianism veganism as opposed to just
vaguely donating money to Greenpeace or
the Green Party being ecologically aware
but still eating milk and animal
products now on them when you say no you
know if I don't stand up for the cows
who live and die their whole [ __ ]
lives in a world of steel and concrete
who will
I am so glad that she mentioned this
this exhaustion and like burnout and
just kind of having that like [ __ ] it
kind of thing that all of us have to
some extent I think we need to be aware
of that within ourselves it's a very
individual thing right everybody's
different
there are vegans who never feel like
that I'm sure okay if I eat a candy bar
with a tiny bit of milk in it am i like
99.99999% vegan like how does it work is
it based on like the number of non vegan
products that I eat the reality is that
you know for kal-el those little
indulgences the popcorn the the candy
bars just even though they seem so
stupid to her and like why can't she let
them go just having those little moments
where she can go [ __ ] I don't care
and how and she can just have a candy
bar that could be what's just kind of
keeping her saying keeping her grounded
and allowing her to be vegan the vast
majority of the time so I think the big
one for a lot of people is restaurants
right like dining out that's where
people just go oh my god it's it's
frustrating you feel like you have to
dictate where you're gonna eat so I
think knowing that about yourself and
maybe just going you know what maybe
right now I don't worry about
restaurants like I'll just eat what I
eat at restaurants and I I'm an at-home
vegan right I think that would make
veganism or vegetarianism or whatever a
lot more palatable for people and third
to kal-el like you are doing so amazing
having four candy bars a year having
popcorn when you go to the movie Jesus
even if you go to see a movie every week
you are doing such an incredible job it
honestly makes me so sad that [ __ ]
Puri vegans have made you feel bad and
have made you feel like you aren't doing
an amazing job I've met people I've
talked about this before I've met people
who are physically disabled and they've
got to eat whatever the nurse in the
hospital gives them I've met people I
know people now who are in hospital with
different conditions and they got to eat
whatever the hospital they don't have a
choice either that or they try to find a
new hospital right there are people who
are on military service in a submarine
and they got to eat whatever food the
military gives them in the submarine
whatever okay there are people I'm not
any of
people if I don't stand up there are
other people on that block crossing that
Street who can't step if I don't stand
up who will okay and I look at all you
look at all you [ __ ] and ask
that question I look at the other people
in my school the other students I look
at my teachers say why don't you stand
up for what's right if you know if you
can pull this is right and that this is
a meal
I don't know compared to compared to
punching a car that's trying to run you
over refusing to eat Dairy Milk refusing
to eat yogurt it's not that much to ask
it's not it's not that much of a risk
you don't have to be that tough a guy to
say even if I'm going to go hungry I'm
not gonna compromise I'm not gonna eat
this [ __ ] that I know is bad for the
ecology of the planet it's bad for the
animals even to have known health
alright you don't to take that stand in
the grocery store or the restaurant it's
not asking that much
I just think vegans have made this
lifestyle looks so [ __ ] restrictive
then nobody even wants to take the first
step people are literally terrified to
even call themselves vegan because they
think they're gonna be attacked for not
following rule number 16 properly you
know it is so detrimental to the
movement for us to have this like
militant view on how things should be
these critics are making veganism harder
if somebody wants to be 10 percent vegan
we should be alright let's do it you're
doing such a good job that's amazing
that you're making those changes if
somebody is plant-based and wants to
call themselves vegan who gives a [ __ ]
who cares why are we on our high horses
about these labels but even more
important than that I want to fight the
stereotype that you have to follow all
of these rules perfectly in order to
call yourself a vegan
you really don't most of these people
who are conformists are [ __ ] cowards
and with that example with the car when
I looked into the eyes of the driver he
had his girlfriend or his wife next to
him in the next seat and I could read
his face like a book
I've lived in Chinese culture for a long
time so I'm very used to reading
expressions trans people's faces the
expression on his face was exactly one
of fear and in a sense guilt because
knew he was in the wrong terms what he
was doing with his car and of not
wanting to let his girlfriend ce o-- of
not wanting to let his girlfriend seat
that he was terrified of me and of what
I was gonna do next if I was gonna come
over to his window or what and of course
he stopped he stopped he stopped his car
I mean he stopped [ __ ] slow-mo
whipping people over
that's this [ __ ] intersection and you
know just say I mean it's connect this
is not experience if I once experiences
like this you know roughly similar many
many times all have been in China and
I've I've had I've had some experience
that were worse in Canada actually you
know but here here in China now a couple
of weeks ago there I really got
emotional hit by it because it's linked
to this it's linked to this kind of
normal
not quite daily struggle as part of my
life but you know I just saw a guy
walking down the road actually one of
the same roads you guys have seen on
camera on this channel you know really
messed-up road where you got a you got
motorcycles almost crashing into you and
it's it's just a messed up road here
this construction going on is if there
was a blind man walking down that same
road
no I walk all the time he had the
walking stick and he had another walking
stick coming out of his backpack with a
red flag on it you know to try to make
him more visible try to prevent cars and
motorcycles from just barging into and
you know you know as modest and
miserable and ineffectual as our little
ways are of standing up for what's right
not everybody can do it I can can you
[Music]
evolution